# 'Good Enough Passwords'
A tool for generating memorable passwords 

## 'Good Enough'
The most important aspect of this tool is the term "good enough" and what that is intended to mean.

Consider three people, Sue, Jenny, and Ann.

Sue:
* uses one memorable password everywhere
* is satisfied because most site registrations tell her her password is "Strong"
* once created an online account with her local gym and has noticed login attempts on her Gmail from Malaysia ever since

Jenny:
* uses Lastpass, Keepass, what have you
* has no clue what any of her own passwords are
* occasionally loses access to her password service and must reset her bank account's password to gain access
    * (and then forgets to update the service with this new password, so must repeat this the next time she tries to log in)

Ann:
* carries an encrypted password vault on a dedicated usb drive that also displays 2FA codes
* uses the Schneier password scheme to keep track of dozens of unique passwords across many services
* updates all of these passwords every three months
* only sends pgp-encrypted emails

We all want to be Ann.  We've all probably been Sue and Jenny at some point.

I wanted to create a simple tool that might help me personally do better than Sue and Jenny, since I can never be Ann.

So what does 'good enough' mean?  It means 'not audited', it means 'weekend project', it means 'possibly has a gaping flaw that nullifies the whole thing', it means 'I can't be Ann but I want to do better than Sue and Jenny'.


## Logic


### Examples

The following invocations of `gep` are shown with the hashing logic they will utilize:

* `gep --site facebook --username zuck`
    * hash('{master_pass}' + 'facebook' + 'zuck')
    * real output when 'master_pass' is 'password' and dictionary is the default dict: `fillmein`
* `gep -s facebook -u zuck --num 123`
    * hash('{master_pass}' + 'facebook' + 'zuck' + '123')
    * real output when 'master_pass' is 'password' and dictionary is the default dict: `fillmein`

`gep` passwords will always include a number at the end, which is generated by one of three methods:

### Salt values, numbers, and special characters

`gep` can optionally salt the precursor with either a random `u8` or a user-specified `u8`.  This option is not intended to increase the strength of the password (since it doesn't add much entropy); instead it exists simply to allow generating multiple passwords from the same (site/username/masterpass) values.

Because so many sites require passwords to contain numbers and special characters, `gep` passwords always end in a delim character followed by a number. The number is the salt number (if a salt is to be used), or else derived from the hash (if no salt is to be used). The delim character is `':'` (no option exists to change this, but the value can be modified in the source).

More formally:

1. If the flag `--rand_num` (or `-r`) is present, a random `u8` is generated using `OsRng`, appended to the hash precursor, and appended to the final password output.
1. If the user argument `--num` (or `-n`) is present, its value is used (as a `u8`), and just like `-r` it is appended to the hash precursor and appended to the final password output. 
1. If neither the `--num` nor `--rand_num` options are present, no number is appended to the hash precursor, and the final byte of the hash output is interpreted as a `u8` and appended to the final password output.

